the good news is you have to do what
everyone else is doing AI there's no
excuses anymore your product has to be
better but the good news is the third
point you have to do it with less money
that's the good news you get to do all
build more
software it has to be better and you
have to do it for less money which we'll
talk about not not necessarily in the
early stages but I just what I call it
radical efficiency all the public
companies are radically more
efficient I wanted to I hope you guys
were able to hear the last one last week
it was with Lauren paddleford was Zero
of slice I thought it was really great
it ended up being a very informal Deep
dive on sales and really just running a
vertical SAS company he of slice which
has cross 100 million in Revenue but I
did this opener on the new era of
hyperfunctional SAS and I tried to
synthesize all the things I've been
thinking about and learning for the last
year from AI to what's going on in
public
multiples
to why some SAS companies that are
unicorns or at 100 250 million are not
growing at all today why so many folks
are grouchy on LinkedIn I don't know if
anyone's noticed but a lot of the
revenue folks we know are really grouchy
I'm like what's going on and there's a
lot of things going on which I want to
get to but what I it's not just Ai and
it's not that there's no money out there
if you look at Gart or anyone SAS
spending overall is accelerating it's up
20% this year which is more than last
year on both the percentage and and of
course an absolute basis so it's not
that there's not money out there but and
it's not just AI is great but in B to be
sticking an AI on your website does it
magically change a lot of business
products in fact a lot of the public
leaders aren't even all that AI if we
look at the SAS IPOs we've had there's
only been three since 2021 only three
IPOs alltime low the three IPOs have
been clavio which is marketing and more
for e-commerce for Shopify there's a
little bit of AI there but not all that
much there's one stream which is a great
one we'll do more on that a pretty
obscure one for
CFOs that ipoed just recently at 500
million in AR growing almost 40% they
said our CFOs are scared of AI and
there's rubric which is a cyber security
leader which is partially fueled by AI
but if you actually listen to so many of
the leaders in cyber security AI is
important but it's not not fueling a lot
of their budget for in some cases it is
in some cases it is but so what's going
on and I thought all of it is just the
bar the last couple years have gone has
gone up radically it's gone up radically
buyers are expecting much more of
products AI is accelerating this buyers
for a variety of reasons are probably
over indexing on budget but they're they
want their platform to do everything
they don't want 200 Point Solutions
anymore so the bar has just gone up on
all of us and I want to talk about how
and why because it's hard because as
hard as we all had to work two years ago
we actually all have to work much harder
today to earn the same dollar and a lot
of folks don't want to do that a lot of
folks want to quit a lot of folks
complain about it a lot of folks but the
truth is the bar goes up every four to
five years the world changes and the
world is changing we you guys we all
have to either step up or step aside and
that and but I wanted rather than just
talk about simple plat I want to dig
into what that means today so just a
highlight I put this together last month
it's still pretty ACC but I did the one
thing before we talk about
hyperfunctional assess I want to kick
everybody in the
ARs who talking about a downturn I I
can't attend one more meeting hear one
more woe is me investor
update read one more LinkedIn post about
how we're in this the the largest
downturn since the 1700s in SASS and
Cloud we're not in fact I go on LinkedIn
now and there's don't want to hear any
more for that person there's like a
little function you can get I do that
one I hear these Debbie downers because
it's not that they're wrong listen I if
you talk to any VC out there they will
tell you a third a half of their
Investments that were growing at Epic
rates in 2021 are barely growing today
are barely growing
today but not all of them and so I've
talked about this a little before I
broke it into two sides just to simplify
this folks then we'll dig into more
overall Cloud spent still up
20% non-tech and this is where it's conf
confusing nonte remains very strong
toast up 29% at a billion and a half in
ARR restaurants are doing there are a
few challenges inflation and others but
restaurants are doing pretty well
monday.com sort of workflow management
CRM and more for non Tech folks over 70%
of Monday's customers are not Tech
they're selling to churches and normal
businesses they're growing 34% in a
billion AR while Assa which mostly sells
to Tech if you see on the right is only
growing 10% okay Shopify has re
accelerated Shopify at almost 10 billion
over 8 billion AR is growing 21% that
means it's adding 1.6 billion of new
Revenue per year so if you're vaguely in
that space and you're not growing it's
you it's a you problem how do they say
this on Tik Tok help me out it's a you
thing it's a whatever that slightly
toxic phrase is because Shopify is
adding 1.6 billion go grab a little bit
clavio Andrew bilecki we just put this
on YouTube and the saster blog so you
have clavio you might not know about
clavo but clavio is the number one
partner in the Shopify ecosystem they
are the HubSpot of Shopify they're at
almost a billion of Revenue growing 35%
and the first question I asked Andrew
when I interviewed him on stage a couple
weeks ago was are we in a downturn and
he's a great guy fairly serious he just
laughed he's like there's no downturn in
our space so listen Sam Sara we're going
to do a great podcast with the CEO
soon ask for Fleet Management for trucks
and more growing 36% at 1.26 billion AR
so ntech is strong we know AI is strong
is there a bubble yes does it matter who
knows but Google Cloud aour gitlab
benefiting just a little bit on fire and
we talked about security compliance
there was no downturn in security and
compliance is there some pressure yes
but zscaler crowd strike rubric all of
these folks secting compliance there is
no downturn but it is on the right and
then I want to dig into what I mean but
Salesforce is is profoundly struggling
for the first it's Fallen to single-
digit growth for the first
time and it's complicated folks are
still building an epic amount of
software fueled by AI we see gitlab up
30% that's a derivative of building more
software but Mongo's down 13%
which is perhaps the leading Standalone
public database platform they're in so
many workflows they're seeing pressure
folks are reducing spend but
interestingly said just a weeks
ago there's pressure on workflows folks
are trying to spend less per application
but net new customers are growing just
as fast as ever net new customers are
growing just as fast as ever elastic and
AA silmer so listen it's just a new
normal and the tough part for folks on
the right which is probably folks like
you is you have to do more you have to
maybe either sell to different customers
you have to build more software you have
to be more
AI you have to be hyperfunctional which
we'll talk about
and let me summarize it and then go into
a little bit of a deep dive this is how
this is what I synthesizing all the
startups I work with talk to have
invested in a no and it's tough and this
is tough this is a B2B slant a sass
slant of everything we're reading in the
media number one and this is tough one
for folks even today I think most of
folks have internalized
this but AI is now table
Stakes it's table Stakes
18 months ago we didn't know what AI
would do to a lot of SAS appli yeah I
can make funny videos and avatars and
stuff but what would it mean for B2B
what would it mean for automating
support for automating sales for
automating marketing now everyone has it
everyone has it a lot of it isn't good
some of it's great some of it's emerging
but it's table stakes and what this what
why is this hyperfunctional if you have
10 Engineers 50 100 150 you may well
need 20 more folks to build this AI
stuff to make it any good
tough I have empathy don't get me wrong
but when everybody has it you got to do
it and we'll we I'll show you an example
on support next it's table stakes and
two the product has to be much better
for it customers AI has meant fair or
not true or not in some cases the
customers are expecting so much more
from us they're expecting so much more
they're expecting everything to do more
they're expecting onboarding to be
automated they're expecting the emails
to be automated they're expecting
Outreach to be automated they're
expecting everything to be po
prepopulated your product has to
probably be two to five times better
than 24 months ago it's
stressful but it's too late and not only
that your competitors are all promising
it your competitors are promising Ai and
automation will do all this for them so
if you can't step up you're going to
lose deals I see it all the time across
my own Investment Portfolio I see folks
losing deals again and again when a
competitor will come in make a lot of AA
promises that are 70% true 50% true 30%
true but you're not at parody or you
won't make that commit you just lose the
deal you lose the deal okay the good
news is AI you have to do what everyone
else is doing AI there's no excuses
anymore your product has to be better
but the good news is the third point you
have to do it with less money that's the
good news you get to do all build more
software it has to be better and you
have to do it for less money which we'll
talk about not not necessarily in the
early stages but I just what I call it
radical efficiency all the public
companies are radically more efficient
than two three years ago so at first
everyone started to get fitter they
started to get fitter more profitable in
2021 when the mar Market forced us to
but I don't think the products got any
better in fact they might have gotten
worse we just did layoffs in 2022 right
everyone got there were no layoffs in
2020 everyone's getting layoff and
that's how we got efficient at first we
just laid people off but that doesn't
build better product in fact the leaders
are all rehiring quite a bit just not at
the same page is 2021 they're rehiring
because it's got to get better but
you've got to find a way to make your
dollar go 50% further and build 100%
more software that's not easy automation
everywhere it's not just AI it's not
just it is everyone wants things to be
automated I shouldn't have to spend a
month on boarding I shouldn't have to
spend I I figure all this stuff out
myself AI is and SAS is Automation in
many cases it can be on steroids but it
should be everywhere if your product is
full of manual work for your customers
they are going to leave for one that
automates everything for them they're
going to leave for one that automates
everyone for
them and then two other points I want to
dig into as much time it is because it
this is like tough news this is I know
you've probably internalized a lot of
this but it's tough it's harder it's not
just it's harder because you have to
build bettery software the last two
points multiproduct has become the new
normal and I think I have a post on this
coming out in the next week or two I've
written quite a few in the queue because
I have so much to say these days but
what I'm looking across cosos that I
know and my own portfolio of 30 or 40
bigger
Investments what's the number one real
issue for SAS companies today the number
one issue is not AI or change or even
that there's now 200 competitors in
their space that there wasn't a year ago
this is not the number one issue the
number one issue I'm seeing from 5
million to 500 million in the company
I've destined over the last 11 years is
being too slow to go multiproduct being
too
slow YC is great focus focus but and I
love YC but YC the average startups at
5,000 0,000 10,000 20,000 Mr of course
in the early days you've got to focus
but what I'm seeing again and again is
that these days as the products have to
be better and as there is more comp even
more competition is folks are Miss
sequencing this and they are slowing
down somewhere between 10 and 500
million in ARR because they never
developed a real second product they
never developed a real one and it's not
enough they exhaust their Tam they
exhaust their buyer and we'll dig into
this a little bit but the most important
thing is that your second product your
multi-product you do it on time before
your before your initial Market decays
too much and that the second one has to
be bigger it has to be bigger I've said
this before but I don't think I can say
enough time
building another multifeature is not
multi-product CRM is bigger for HubSpot
today than marketing automation if you
don't know this which bar didn't
exist a decade ago it is now bigger than
the core HubSpot product of markety it
has to be bigger or won't contribute
enough growth if you're at 10 million 50
million let's call it 100 million to
keep it simple if you're at 100 million
growing 30% which isn't enough to IPO
unfortunately but you finally got God I
finally got a second product but that
product at best we'll achieve a 100
million in five years it won't do enough
the second product has to be bigger than
the first and it's tough and you have to
sequence into it properly too early
you'll burn out the team and you'll burn
out the market but too late and growth
will Decay you have to layer these
products on top of each
other and the last one is which is tough
this is the one that I think folks are
struggling with on LinkedIn the most
even if they don't realize it um
customers are demanding more than just
another Point solution there is finally
massive Point solution
fatigue I just wrote up zscaler today on
sas's five interesting learnings if you
read it and zscaler is seeing no
downturn at two and a half billion in
Revenue in cyber security but it is
harder out there and what they said is
listen one of the things we're most
benefiting from is at this point zscaler
is a full platform and people just start
exhausted of all these Point Solutions
and it is tough and of course you have
to start us very few of us get five
years in ation to build a massive
platform and then hit the market we
almost all start as Point Solutions but
it's tough because customers do want
their platforms to do more and I think
this has been accentuated by the
scrutiny on buy from procurement from
cios from others companies have wanted
to in some ways irrationally in some
ways rationally cut their SAS Bend and
they're pushing their existing vendors
to do more and you've got to find a way
to be more of a platform you cannot last
as a point solution in many cases it's
just hard so so I call this
hyperfunctional we have to do all we
can't stay a point solution as long we
have to go multiproduct earlier we have
to automate everything we have to be
more efficient doing with less the
product has to be better than AI table
stakes and I know it's hard but if we
want to do great things this is the bar
for the next five years so a couple
things to dig in
on I used this table Stakes notion I
pulled together a couple weeks ago zenes
Salesforce and intercoms
products right we all know zenes is for
support many of us have used intercom we
certainly have it s in the past you may
not realize that
Salesforce the support post sales is
actually bigger than CRM it's actually a
bigger Cloud than CRM and look at what
do you see the same stuff AI first zenes
is AI first intercom all AI from Owen
and team Mark Benny off all here okay if
you're a customer I don't even know if
you can tell difference unless you do a
bake off so hopefully you're past this
at this point in the year at this point
in the cycle but no more complaints
about Ai No More complaints about how
hard it is to build no more complaints
that it doesn't work well no more
complaints that it doesn't change your
space everyone if Salesforce is doing it
and zenes and aircom doing it it's
parody you have to find a way to do it
even if you don't have any more money
even if you don't have any more
Engineers it's life it is parody and
this is what's going to happen it's
already happened in B2B is that I do not
believe in core to be that AI going to
this point now and certainly next year
is a differentiator your implementation
maybe you might be the best but how
everyone is going to have pricing page
check the box function app Feature
parody on everything that is a toi and
B2B everyone so you better if you don't
if you haven't built it
yet find a wayn okay and so next thing
that I think is even
harder is that customers expectations
they might have even got down in 2020
when we were all locked up at home we
might have been oh my God if I could
just talk to people on Zoom or just
spool up a call center without humans it
was great now the bar is way up and and
AI is the accelerant here and what is it
it's taught customers to expect more
from us which is tough I think that's
number one if you're not
in if you are in any way involved in
post sales or support you will see this
first bullet point viscerally everyone
in postale Salesforce intercom zenes
gorgeous on and on they are promising
you can eliminate 30 to 50% of your
humans in support with AI they're
promising it today they're promising it
today um sales is going to is beginning
to promise this even Mark benof is
beginning to promise that you can
eliminate portions of your sales team
with AI folks are pro marketing I I
actually think is struggling more than
uh social media suspects but marketing
is promising you can eliminate parts of
your marketing team with AI there so
customers are expecting this they're
expecting to literally replace humans
efficiently with AI if your product
can't do it if your product can't do it
they're not going to buy the most recent
investment I made is a company called
mango mint.com they're coming up on 20
million in ARR growing 100% with 110%
nrr from smbs in a very small space
actually in a very small and crowded
space
for uh Salon Spa software why is it
growing so quickly right in a small
space it does a lot of cool things the
software does automation really well
it's really slick it's a Next Generation
product but it actually lets you
automate away your front end of your
office where you can't find anybody to
work and automate away your back end
it's getting it's dealing with the fact
that 34 to 50% of the workforce in these
small businesses is gone it's making
that promise and it's earning that so
this is what your customers are looking
for not an Roi calculator
or SM they want to get rid of humans
with your product can you do it they're
expecting it and your competitors are
promising
it the next one
and this is more subtle but I think this
is a threat to a lot of B2B products
this is why box is so excited about AI
it's why we're trying to figure out
what's going on with leaders like
perplexity and others
but C AI is taught B2B customers to
expect that all unstructured data will
be instantly structured and
searchable they they're expecting it and
the fact that if your data cannot be
found if you are stuck in dated painful
dashboards if you do not find away going
to the next point that your product can
more or less work like a pled English
prompt to extract data I think you're
going to fall behind I think you're
going to fall behind obviously we see
this in a lot of folks trying to apply
more AI to bi business intelligence so
that I don't need an engineer anymore
that a plain English prompt will finally
get me EI I need but they're expecting
it from every application okay this
fourth one I think is the most important
for SMB and midmarket I've done I've
worked with and invested in a lot of
folks in the SMB space and if you guys
are in SMB or the bottom B market you
know that for complex pro products
actually one of the biggest problems is
onboarding smbs have no time and they
have no people and they have no it
department and they have no one to
implement anything so if they actually
make the time to buy the product the
good news is they might buy that day
right owners don't have time to to do
massive bake offs or to spend months but
the problem is if you don't get them on
boarded that day they're often disappear
they often disappear
and for many folks I've worked with the
goal is hey can we get these smbs on
boarded in the first week the first 15
days the first 30 days that's been a
traditional goal for smbs now now with
automation customers are expecting it to
be automated when I end the zoom when I
end the meeting they're expecting it
even when it didn't seem possible this
is what AI is expecting right I I'll
give you a small example so I invested
in I'm on the board of a company called
owner which is like a marketing platform
for restaurants we've done a lot of fun
stuff with their cro and some with their
CEO they're coming up on 30 million in
Revenue growing triple digits growing
double digits per Mon it's fast growth
but onboarding is is hard in their space
I know this sounds niche but it's an
example which is with restaurants one of
the biggest headaches I know it sounds a
little silly is the menu because you've
got to figure out a way to get a menu
which is often not online for a a tiny
little restaurant how do you get that
and it changes all the time how do you
get that dynamically input in the app
the buyer is not going to input that
entire menu themselves and the classic
way it's a meta issue in the space for
toast and others is behind the scenes a
people are doing it whether they're
doing it at the restaurant or whether
the vendor is doing it they're doing it
now
customers just expect it to be done
automatically they don't care AI will do
it AI will do it so this whole cheat
this whole thing of snb's
tolerating weeks to go live I think is
dying right now so I would challenge you
if that's you think about how you can
eliminate onboarding in your app even if
you think it's impossible even if you
think it can't be done even if your team
is telling you it can't be done your
engineering team is telling you it can't
be done someone's going to find a way
are your competitors going to find a way
to reboot your space so that the
automation is instant and they're going
to take all the customers at least for
small businesses Enterprises have time
for deployments small businesses don't
and then the final Point here is just
this is just tough core platforms are
HubSpot was early here of doing more
stuff but they're all going to do the
work of 20 add-ons and point Solutions
and the one that I've talked about a
little
bit is at first I thought it was crazy
was watching and learning from what
Parker Conrad was doing at ripling and
you can watch his presentation from
South Europe about a year ago on YouTube
it's pretty great it's on building I
think they had 20 products then they
have 50 products today and it's like
that's great but we haven't all raised a
billion and a half dollars we can't all
build 50 products like riping we don't
have a billion and a half dollars but
but we might have to do some of this we
might all have to build more products
more functionally early because that's
what the customers are expecting they
don't want these 20 products anymore
they're being promised all of this and
if ripling is out there and has 50
Solutions and maybe not all 50 are great
nothing to gets ripling but probably
some of the 50 products they have are
better than others that's the reality
but I'm already on the ripling platform
it's pretty compelling when ripling can
ship another 10 products per year it's
pretty compelling when we look at data
dog a little bit later of how compelling
that platform is do people now think
data dog is way too expensive yeah you
see those complaints but it does
everything it does everything and people
love the core product why not buy more
from
them and the final Point here and then
I'll hit the next one is just AI has
taught everyone this is easy the
internet has social media has the Wall
Street Journal everyone thinks that it's
this it's great that Sam alman's talking
about a one person's going to build a
billion dollar company and there's
positives and negatives in that but
everyone's talking their game it
everyone in the AI industry is talking
about how easy it is everyone has an AI
SDR app that in 30 seconds will get you
a million qualified leads they're all
talking about that all the support folks
we talked about zenes Salesforce
gorgeous intercom they're all promising
you can eliminate 50 to 60% of your
support team
overnight right or wrong customers now
expect this when the leading vendors in
the world and the leading luminaries in
the world are all telling you that AI
makes this all easy um customers are
going to demand it they've heard it too
many times now they believe it now they
believe it and they're demanding it okay
just a couple few other things I just
wanted to highlight this point I think
every most people get this now but on
this thing of hyper functionality and
Hyper you have to be hyperfunctional you
have to be multi-product and maybe have
50 products like ripling and Achieve AI
parity and do it all but you have to do
it with less money and the mistake that
Founders are still making today even at
this point in the cycle is they think
it's an excuse for slower growth that
like profitability comes above growth
whoever dat is you look at saster
meritech which we've written up besser
whomever everyone that analy analyzes
the data they all come to the same
conclusion jam and ball they all come to
the same conclusion if you crunch the
data from all the public SAS companies
efficiency Matters St did not matter in
2021 no one cared how much money you
were burning in 2021 boy they care today
Wall Street cares and they care for your
cash burn and they also now care for
your Equity burn your stock burn which
will run out of time but becomes a big
stressor later you just can't issue that
much Equity anymore Zoom says they're
almost stopping issuing followon grants
because Wall Street won't let them do it
but you also have to grow at top tier
rates you don't get a pass on growth for
efficiency and I just pulled up the
Monday example
here Monday again is growing almost 40%
at a billion in ARR but look how their
efficiency changed in 2020 when no one
cared minus 25% free cash flow then they
started to car then in 2021 they broke
even into 2022 23 now they're at 28%
free cash loan going up 28 cents out of
each dollar is going to the bank that is
radical change is Monday growing quite
as fast as it was when the Monday when
the markets were bananas no but it is
still growing at top five% rates and
that's why it's one of the top plays so
you got to do it all I know it's not
tough it just at the end of the day it
means we have to hire fewer better
people that's the answer fewer better
people but they did go through a layoff
to get to this efficiency I think it was
their first real one and it was tough
and coio Ron and I chatted about it last
year at sran was a great one to watch
they did go through layoffs it would to
do to reset but then pretty quickly they
rehired here's the thing they just
rehired slower than they were growing if
they're growing 34% at a billion if you
just increase your headcount spend 24%
you will get more profitable even 30% at
their number you'll get a little bit
more profit this year by growing
headcount less than Revenue so we've
been taught unicorn math in the last few
years taught us to grow Revenue faster
than headcount faster than revenue and
maybe you can do that for a little while
when you're Venture backed but at some
point you got to pay the piper and
headcount just has to grow slow slower
than growth you have to get the
efficiency that is Promised by software
and if you want to back into it I wrote
this math up on S while ago I don't
think enough people internalized it
because it's pretty specific but this is
one to think about when I look at all
the companies I invested at years ago
that are now at 200 million or Beyond
and there's a group of them now I can
watch them and I can look at other ones
that I know where I know this Co well or
others you basically got to have 700
people when you get to 200 million AR
and that may sound hey what does that
mean for me I'm not at 200 million in AR
today roll it back to where you are you
can Bridge some of the Gap with capital
but at the end of the day to be
efficient to survive in today's market
you're going to have to have 700 does
that mean 350 people at 100 million AR
does that
mean
175 at 50 maybe maybe you can afford
more if you've got folks in in EAS
Easter Europe or Latin America and
others but this is the rough math to
think about how many folks you're going
to be able to afford to make it
happen okay just a couple more things
that I see as part of this hyper
functionality I just wanted to highlight
if you aren't seeing this because I'm
seing this
everywhere it's not just a AI it's again
it's automation everywhere that I think
SAS through
20203 2020 was workflow on
dashboards that was all we were doing in
SAS workflow and dashboards build
workflow to connect some data build
workflow through triggers through
emails and then the boss gets a
dashboard okay that worked pretty well I
think from the 70s
until 2023 or so but automation AI is
just p is automation on steroids and I
grabbed an example here from Gorgeous
which has about almost 20,000 Shopify
customers for support just because I'm
on the board but intercom zenes
Salesforce all the same just this is
look at this flow on this image this is
when you sign up you go from help desk
to
automate to buying okay automate is this
middle piece and they're picking what
percent of support do you want to
automate 20% 30% 50% 80% you're picking
automation this is what customers are
expecting to dial in the amount of
automation that they want one way or
another you're probably going to have to
do this in your product as well is it
going to be exact same way support no
but think about this people want a
slider a dial this is the AI promise
that is still no matter what the media
says it's still hard to deliver they
want to dial a slider in every app where
I can dial up how much of human BL
functions will now be automated this is
what everyone on the Internet is
promising this is what open AI is
promising at 150 billion valuations this
is what everyone's promising one way or
another that we can
automate on a slider this amount you're
going to have to build
it and I do think the AI bubble is going
to pop I think everyone thinks this just
because the amount of spend going into
AI can't increase forever we will just
run out of GDP there just isn't enough
money in our entire economy to allow AI
spend to increase at the rate it is
today so the bubble's going to pop and
so be it but the customers are going to
expect this forever this level of
automation so my challenge to you I'm
sure you've seen it in the markets but
if you're not thinking about okay if
what can we automate more and how can we
accelerate this and because there's
parody beat out the competition er
because customers are just going to
expect that they're not going to
tolerate a lack of automation
anymore any this point we hit so I'm
just going to say it again because I
think it's the number one issue as you
scale so I'm just going to say it
differently as per the
slide those again going to the very
beginning a lot of folks are talking
about a downturn on LinkedIn oh my God
it's great to just grow 15% a year now
it's so hard blah blah blah blah blah
but when you peel the the layers back in
the onion yeah one some of the reasons
that they've slowed down is because
they're too focused on Tech or B2B Tob
for sure but you really peel the layers
back did they really escape the single
product trap a lot of folks complaining
I don't want to single out people but a
lot of the folks I know 50 100 200
million that are seeing growth less than
20 in some cases zero in some cases zero
yeah they built a feature yeah they
built a HubSpot integration yeah they
added something in but they stayed
single product for too long
I think it's the number one tactical
issue that I see across my
portfolio and I know it's tough I'm only
saying this between friends I'm almost
giving up on startups that have hit
scale that have not become multiproduct
it's almost too late if you don't start
it takes too long if you're at 50
million and want to develop another 50
million or 100 million of product from
your second product and you haven't even
started or you're screwing around it's
all it's not too late it if your nrr is
over 100% it's never too late but the
founders better want it you better want
it and that I've had this tough
conversation with a few folks over the
last month or two and I hate tough
conversations you might surprise you I
hate them but folks that I've seen in
this pickle where they have a good
product but growth has declined because
they didn't build a second product in
time I just can't I like how badly do
you want it because building a real
second product that's bigger than the
first it's not like a second startup but
it might be 20 or 30 or 40% of the work
of what you've already done you've got
to want it badly or you're going to stay
growing more slowly and slowly in single
product land it's I think it's the
number one issue I see across SAS
today okay and then just again one more
point this is one I don't have all the
answers to I think again a lot of folks
have seen Whiplash the last 18 to 24
months when their point Solutions stop
selling and some of this was budget
shock of this is budget shock when when
everyone in 2020 21 added 100 200 more
sales apps and the CIO said now you got
to cut 50 now you got to cut ad so
there's a lot of whiplash there in the
industry but it's not just that it's not
that we overbought apps because if they
all delivered and performed we wouldn't
be seeing the Whiplash now it's that the
leading vendors are doing more and I
just I pulled two extreme examples on
the right for data dog and canva even
canva you might think is single product
two and a half billion in AR but it sure
does a lot more than when I started
using
it it it sure eliminates the need for
about 10 or 20 other
tools in my Suite um so I don't have the
answer here you one another you've got
to probably expand Beyond being a point
solution faster than we had to two or
three years ago because again customers
are expecting this hyper functionality
will they stitch together 20 30 40 50
apps if they have to sure if they have
to will they do it if nothing else
exists always when something completely
changes the
market they will buy it but right now
the they're going to open up canva and
they're gonna say does canva do it or
does data dog do it so you got to be
this you got to be
this okay one other one other point
which makes our jobs even harder this
one I have the last ones are challenges
to step up automation Step Up do
multiproduct
earlier automate onboarding
have an onboarding have an automation
dial in your product all this one's just
tough I don't have the answers here but
I sure you've seen it AI hasn't just
raised the bar in terms of product
function it hasn't just raised the bar
in terms of what customers have expected
slightly unexpectedly not really
unexpected but slightly unexpectedly it
has taken categories that were sleepy
and uninteresting and 100x the
vendors couple years ago it seemed like
in in like sales engagement it was
Outreach sales Loft and then folks doing
some of that functionality now there's
200 folks because of AI there's 200
folks doing this legal no one wanted to
build a legal app a couple years ago no
one in the right mind wanted to be a
legal app now there's hundreds and
hundreds of AI based legal apps and the
contact center my god when I I I did a
lot of investing in contact center talk
desk gorgeous front intercom Maestro QA
a lot of them and no one wanted to
invest in contact said it was a tiny
sleepy space now there's 200 folks in
the last YC batch that are doing Bots
and others to automate contact center to
automate support it's exploded and
they're all promising 10 times better
functionality than exist State versus AI
mathematically there's no room for all
these vendors 95% of them will explode
but it just means for us for anyone that
is pre Point solution explosion the bar
is the bar has gone up again I think
I'll leave it at that in terms of
hyperfunctional SAS and I'll leave it
maybe the with one more this one I'm
worried about this one I'm I I need help
from you guys I don't have the answers
this is one I'm spending a lot of time
on which is we have to do more we have
to be more efficient we have to be AI
first we have to have ai parody we have
to do automation but who's going to do
the work who will do the work for us
Founders I find for the most part are as
driven as ever my God they're so driven
but what about everybody else what about
the the VPS of sales on LinkedIn that
are so grouchy that they got fired or so
grouchy they had to hit plan or so grou
what about the marketers what about the
A's and sdrs that don't want the sales
folks don't want to travel who's going
to do the work and this may sound like
grouchy pants a little grouchy pants
about said I just don't know how we're
gonna do all of it and I'll give you two
examples and I just think this means we
need to do be relentless about not
lowering the bar and hiring be
relentless about only hiring Pirates and
and Romantics be relentless about when
we're getting tired about making the
higher just not making the higher rather
than settling settling Works worse today
than ever and I'll give you two examples
one I just wrote up on saster we wanted
to help folks we all the folks that we
thought were in the baraya that had done
Booth Duty for the last three years at
sastra anual we identified 813 people in
our database that had come to Booth Duty
and we said come toaster annual for free
as our guest this year Meet meet every
cro there is hiring every CMO is hiring
everyone's hiring that's atess everyone
in the world isn't hiring but every
single cro I talk to Backstage or an
event is hiring maybe not as many maybe
as many but they're all hiring and
there's no better place to get a job or
just meet SE level Executives and how
many of these 813 AES and SRS that did
Booth Duty wanted a free VIP ticket on
us
four four four took an opportunity of a
lifetime to hobnob with the best of the
best even worse I'll give you a tough
thing we were talking about this morning
so this is just I know it's using SAS
and sasel as a proxy for SAS but for
year we've been doing the SAS for we've
done 10 of them it's a lot but we've
learned a lot because we have a lot of
data and I would say until two years ago
then when we go and talk to our
sponsors they're a lot of we love them
we love all of them we love them all
like our friends and our children and
our partners but they're pretty grouchy
a lot of times in the college you get
used to it you got to develop a thick
skin and until two years ago the number
one complaint was we didn't get enough
leads I'm like and we pull up the the
the list like you got 582 leads you got
681 leads you got 281 leads we didn't
get enough leads and we push them and it
was just there was maybe there's some
truth to it was just a common complaint
and it's okay you got you got to hear it
in in sales ultimately that's what we
would here and then last year started to
change and this year changed a lot and
this year we heard from startups
scale-ups and public companies mass and
public companies alike of our sponsors
we got too many
leads we got too many leads and we're
like what do you mean you got
two at least we got you your leads at
least we accomplished our decade long
goal like literally we heard this on two
conversations this morning I can't get
my sales team to follow up on them
anymore they won't do the
work now I know this I'm just Among Us
SAS friends okay I don't mean to be
grouchy pants but we heard this TW 20
times so far I can't get it's too many
leads it's too many we had one partner
we've worked with for years a great one
in the compliance space they got over
700 folks
leads and they got over 150 folks that
weren't just leads that said I'm
interested in buying this product over
150 folks said that want ined right they
they said they just couldn't get the Sal
steam to follow up it was too much it
was too much they didn't want to do the
extra work so do we need to fix our
processes and systems
yes I don't have all the answers but we
have to be relentless about this because
I'm worried that our sub productivity is
so much lower than it was free March
2020 even two years ago and I don't have
the answers but we've got hopefully
automation will solve it for us as well
um because I think it's an existential
issue for Founders so my last Point look
I know for some folks It's hard out
there but Monday just crossed a billion
n AR growing 34% with 110% n from SBS
with 22% free cash flows go find your
Monday and what do I mean by that like
we can't all be Monday but if you're
still feeling sorry for yourself if you
still think we're in a downturn if
you're still feeling a little bit of a
Debbie down or we're seing on your team
go find your money go find the areas of
your industry that aren't seeing a
downturn go sell outside of tech go more
Enterprise go more SMB in some cases
lean into compliance lean into security
lean into AI budgets go find the money
the overall and then I'll bring us the
overall budget for SAS is at all-time
highs per Gartner it's growing faster
this year 20% at hundreds and hundreds
of billions in Revenue go find your
little piece and if your growth has
slowed
if your growth has slowed dramatically
it always means one
thing and and as Founders or as Leaders
you have to internalize this if growth
has slowed it is not a downturn or macro
it's a little bit of it it is that you
have fallen out of product Market fit if
two years ago you were growing 100% and
today you're growing 20% it is not just
the market it is that you do not have
the the product the market wants
anymore you don't it's a fact you have
fallen out a product Market fit and be
honest it doesn't mean your product is
terrible but the world has moved on and
evolved the budget is there it is just
not finding you so step it up and
rebuild your product so that it is the
product the market wants today is it
hard yes but if you have decent nrr and
your customers aren't quitting at least
you have time at least that's a beauty
to SAS if you have a 100% nrr And you
want it badly enough you always have
time you always have a couple of years
but be honest you've probably fallen out
a product Market fit okay so go build
some hyper functional SAS